DOC-1325: RS CLI Reorg: rladmin node (#1920)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/node/enslave.md

---
Title: rladmin node enslave
linkTitle: enslave
description: Changes the resources of a node to replicas.
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
toc: "true"
headerRange: "[1-2]"
categories: ["RS"]
aliases:
---

`rladmin node enslave` changes the resources of a node to replicas.

## `node enslave`

Changes all of the node's endpoints and shards to replicas.

``` sh
$ rladmin node <id> enslave
                [demote_node]

>                 [retry_timeout_seconds]

Reviewer: `retry_timeout_seconds` accepts an integer, right? If so, the other two commands need to be updated too.
```suggestion
                [retry_timeout_seconds] <seconds>
```

```

### Parameters

| Parameter             | Type/Value                     | Description                                                                               |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| node                  | integer                        | Changes all of the node's endpoints and shards to replicas             |
| demote_node           |                                | If the node is a primary node, changes the node to replica                     |

> | retry_timeout_seconds | integer                        | Retries any failures until the specified number of seconds has passed.                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| retry_timeout_seconds | integer                        | Retries on failure until the specified number of seconds has passed.                    |
```

db:6       tr02             redis:14         node:2       slave      0-4095                 2.99MB                 OK
db:6       tr02             redis:16         node:2       slave      4096-8191              3.01MB                 OK
db:6       tr02             redis:18         node:2       slave      8192-12287             2.93MB                 OK
db:6       tr02             redis:20         node:2       slave      12288-16383            3.06MB                 OK
```

## `node enslave endpoints_only`

Changes the role for all endpoints on a node to replica.

``` sh
$ rladmin node <id> enslave endpoints_only
                [retry_timeout_seconds]
```

### Parameters

| Parameter             | Type/Value                     | Description                                                                               |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| node                  | integer                        | Changes all of the node's endpoints to replicas                        |

> | retry_timeout_seconds | integer                        | Retries any failures until the specified number of seconds has passed.                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| retry_timeout_seconds | integer                        | Retries on failure until the specified number of seconds has passed.                    |
```

$ rladmin node 1 enslave endpoints_only
Performing enslave_node action on node:1: 100%
OK
$ rladmin status endpoints
ENDPOINTS:
DB:ID         NAME        ID                             NODE            ROLE                                       SSL       
db:5          tr01        endpoint:5:1                   node:3          single                                     No        
db:6          tr02        endpoint:6:1                   node:3          all-master-shards                          No       
```

## `node enslave shards_only`

Changes the role for all shards of a node to replica.

``` sh
$ rladmin node <id> enslave shards_only
                [retry_timeout_seconds]
```

### Parameters

| Parameter             | Type/Value                     | Description                                                                               |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| node                  | integer                        | Changes all of the node's shards to replicas                          |

> | retry_timeout_seconds | integer                        | Retries any failures until the specified number of seconds has passed.                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| retry_timeout_seconds | integer                        | Retries on failure until the specified number of seconds has passed.                    |
```
